most of us go through life trying to do
our best at whatever we do whether it's
her job family school or anything else I
feel that way I try my best but some
time ago I came to the realization that
I wasn't getting much better at the
things I cared most about whether it was
being a husband or a friend or a
professional or teammate and I wasn't
improving much of those things even
though I was spending a lot of time
working hard at them I've since realized
from conversations I've had and from
research that this stagnation despite
hard work turns out to be pretty common
so I'd like to share with you some
insights into why that is and what we
can all do about it what I've learned is
that the most effective people and teams
in any domain do something we can all
emulate it goes through life
deliberately alternating between two
zones the learning zone and the
performance zone the learning zone is
when our goals to improve then we do
activities designed for improvement
concentrating on what we haven't
mastered yet which means we have to
expect to make mistakes knowing that we
will learn from them that is very
different from what we do when we're in
our performance zone which is where our
goals to do something as best as we can
to execute then we concentrate on what
we have already mastered and we try to
minimize mistakes both of these zones
should be part of our lives but being
clear about when we want to be in each
of them with what goal focus and
expectations helps us better perform and
better improve the performance zone
maximizes our immediate performance
while the learning zone maximizes our
growth and our future performance the
reason many of us don't improve much
despite our hard work is that we tend to
spend almost all of our time in the
performances on this hinders our growth
and ironically over the long term also
our performance so let the learnings
don't look like
take the mas tonie's a political leader
and the greatest order and lawyer in
ancient Greece to become great he didn't
spend all his time just being an order
or a lawyer which would be his
performance song but instead he did
activities designed for improvement of
course he studied a lot he studied law
and philosophy with guidance from
mentors but he also realized that being
a lawyer involved persuading other
people so he also studied great speeches
and acting to get rid of an odd habit he
had of involuntarily lifting his
shoulder he practiced his speeches in
front of a mirror and he suspended a
sword from the ceiling so that if he
raised his shoulder it would hurt to
speak more clearly despite a list he
went through his speeches with stones in
his mouth he built an underground room
where he could practice without
interruptions and not disturb other
people and since courts at the time were
very noisy he also practiced by the
ocean projecting his voice above the
roar of the waves his activities in the
learning zone were very different from
his activities in court his performances
own in the learning zone he did what
doctor Anders Ericsson calls deliberate
practice this involves breaking down
abilities into component skills being
clear about what sub skill were working
to improve by keeping our shoulders down
giving full concentration to a high
level of challenge outside our comfort
zone just beyond what we can currently
do you seem frequent feedback with
repetition and adjustments and ideally
engaging the guidance of a skilled coach
because activities designed for
improvement are domain-specific and
great teachers and coaches know what
those activities are and can also give
us expert feedback it is this type of
practice in the learning zone which
leads to substantial improvement not
just time on tasks performing for
example research shows that after the
first couple of years working in a
profession performance usually plateaus
this has been shown to be true in
teaching general medicine nursing and
other fields and it happens because once
we think would become good enough
adequate then we stop spending time in
the learning zone we focus all our time
on just doing our job
forming which turns out not to be a
great way to improve but the people who
continue to spend time in the learning
zone do continue to always improve the
best salespeople at least once a week do
activities with the goal of improvement
they read to extend their knowledge
consult with colleagues or domain
experts try out new strategies solicit
feedback and reflect the best chess
players spend a lot of time not playing
games of chess which would be their
performance zone but trying to predict
the move grandmasters made and analyzing
them each of us has probably spent many
many many hours typing on a computer
without getting faster but if we spent
10 p.m. with 10 to 20 minutes each day
fully concentrated on typing 10 to 20
percent faster than our current reliable
speed we would get faster especially if
we also identified what mistakes were
making and practice typing those words
that's deliberate practice in what other
parts of our lives perhaps that we care
more about are we working hard but not
improving much because we're always in
the performance zone now this is not to
say that the performance zone has no
value it very much does when I need a
knee surgery I didn't tell the surgeon
poke around in there and focus on what
you don't know will learn for your
mistakes
I look for a surgeon who I thought would
do a good job and I want her to do a
good job being the performance zone
allows us to get things done as best as
we can he can also be motivating and it
provides us with information to identify
what to focus on next when we go back to
the learning zone so the way to high
performance is to alternate between the
learning zone and the performance zone
purposefully building our skills in the
learning zone then applying those skills
in the performance zone when Beyonce is
on pour during the concert she's in her
performance zone but every night when
she gets back to the hotel room she goes
right back into her learning zone she
watches a video of the show that just
ended she identifies opportunities for
improvement for herself her dancers and
her camera staff and the next morning
everyone receives pages with notes with
what to a
which they then work on during the day
before the next performance it's a
spiral to ever-increasing capabilities
but we need to know when we seek to
learn and when we seek to perform and
what we want to spend time doing both
the more time we spend in the learning
zone the more will improve so how can we
spend more time in the learning zone
first we must believe and understand
that we can improve what we call a
growth mindset second we must want to
improve at that particular skill it has
to be a purpose we care about because it
takes time and effort third we must have
an idea about how to improve what we can
do to improve not how I used to practice
a guitar as a teenager performing songs
over and over again but doing deliberate
practice and fourth we must be in a
low-stakes situation because if mistakes
are to be expected then the consequence
of making them must not be catastrophic
or even very significant a tightrope
walker doesn't practice new tricks
without a net underneath and an athlete
wouldn't set out to first try a new move
during a championship match one reason
that in our lives we spend so much time
in the performance zone is that our
environments often are unnecessarily
high stakes we create social risks for
one another even in schools which are
supposed to be all about learning and
I'm not talking about standardized tests
I mean that every minute of every day
many students in elementary school
through colleges feel that if they make
a mistake others will think less of them
no wonder they're always stressed out
and not taking the risks necessary for
learning but they learned that mistakes
are undesirable inadvertently when
teachers or parents are eager to hear
just correct answers and reject mistakes
rather than welcome and examine them to
learn from them or when we look for
narrow responses rather than encourage
more exploratory thinking that we can
all learn from when all homework or
student work has a number or a letter on
it and counts toward a final grade
rather than being used for practice
mistakes feedback and revision we send
the message that school is a performance
zone the same is true in our workplaces
in the companies I consult with I often
see flawless execution cultures which
leaders foster to incur
great work but it leads employees to
stay within what they know and not try
new things so companies struggle to
innovate and improve and they fall
behind we can create more spaces for
growth by starting conversations with
one another about when we want to be in
each zone what do we want to get better
at and how and when do we want to
execute and minimize mistakes that way
we gain clarity about what success is
when and how to best support one another
but what if we find ourselves in a
chronic high-stakes setting and we feel
we can't start those conversations yet
and here are three things we can still
do as individuals first we can create
low stakes islands in an otherwise high
spec see these are spaces where mistakes
has little consequence for example we
might find a mentor or a trusted
colleague with whom we can exchange
ideas or have vulnerable conversations
or even roleplay or we can ask for
feedback oriented meetings as projects
progress or we can set aside time to
read or watch videos or take online
courses those are just some examples
second we can execute and performance
we're expected but then reflect them
what we could do better next time
like Beyonce does and we can observe and
emulate experts the observation
reflection and adjustment is a learning
zone and finally we can lead and lower
the stakes for others by sharing what we
want to get better at by asking
questions about what we don't know by
soliciting feedback and by sharing our
mistakes and what we've learned from
them so that others can feel safe to do
the same real confidence is about
modeling ongoing learning what is
instead of spending our life doing doing
doing performing performing performing
we spent more time exploring asking
listening experimenting reflecting
striving and becoming what is we each
always had something we're working to
improve what if we created more low
stakes islands and waters and what if we
got clear within ourselves
and with our
teammates about when we seek to learn
and when we seek to perform so that our
efforts can become more consequential
our improvement never-ending and our
best even better thank you